Opening Ceremony
by EMF Team
Stage A on Fri 31, 10:00 for 30 mins
The ceremony in which we open the festival. Hello!
Time to next talk: 1:00:00


How to go solar off grid in the UK. 
by andy fletcher
Stage C on Fri 31, 11:00 for 30 mins
How to design an off grid solar/battery system in the UK and what performance to expect from it. Handling low production near winter solstice. Battery selection, cost, care and feeding. Dimensioning system for a given power demand.  Inverter selection and limitations. System and battery safety. Breaker selection and use. Reliability issues. Aimed at people wanting to deploy their own systems.

I've been running off grid for the last 5 years in the West Midlands, and will share the what I have learnt during that time.


Time to next talk: 0:40:00


Small Town, Big Ideas - The challenges of building a rural Makerspace
by Matthew Macdonald-Wallace
Stage C on Fri 31, 11:40 for 20 mins
It turns out that building a Hackspace in a rural area is really hard.

From the name of the group causing security concerns to finding a venue and members, a lot of the challenges that are presented in rural environments don't really seem to be present in the cities where hackspaces are most frequently found.

In this talk, I'll go over the challenges I've faced in building a Hackspace in a rural town and hopefully show how others can avoid the same pitfalls!
Time to next talk: 0:30:00


Run your own fucking infrastructure - 2024 edition
by Elmar mc.fly Lecher
Stage C on Fri 31, 12:10 for 30 mins
In a 2012 talk about running your own infrastructure I made some predictions on the future and made some claims. A long time has passed and let's see what came true and what was not so correct. 

After that talk we also started building our own infrastructure. I will show what we are running, what you can run and share experiences running infrastructure for larger groups of people.


Time to next talk: 1:40:00


Working Amateur Satellites on a Budget
by Heather Nickalls
Stage A on Fri 31, 13:50 for 30 mins
Always thought it was expensive to receive signals from Space? In this talk I will go through the simple homebrew antennas and cheap (around £10) receivers that you can use to get such diverse things as weather satellite images, pictures from the ISS, receive telemetry from the orbiting CubeSats, and even begin communicating with the first Amateur Geosynchronous Satellite, QO-100 where you can receive TV pictures from amateurs across the world with a rust old satellite dish and a cheap LNB. It is amazing what you can do with a piece of bent water pipe or a coat hanger!
Time to next talk: 0:30:00


The Best Word In Morse Code
by Ayliean Macdonald
Stage B on Fri 31, 14:20 for 20 mins
After accidentally becoming fluent in Morse Code I have waded through a sea of dots and dashes to find THE best word in Morse Code (ok, maybe its just my personal favourite - but I have reasons to back it up!)
Of course, as a mathematician, I couldn't leave it there and have also determined what I believe to be the best number in Morse Code too.
From steganography to lexical anomalies we explore the delights of this not exactly binary alphabet.
You may not have time to learn all of Morse Code, so come and learn the singular most awesome word in Morse instead!
Time to next talk: 0:20:00


From Haunted Karaoke to the Humour Feature
by Ben Below and Matthew Wearden 
Stage C on Fri 31, 14:40 for 40 mins
In a world where large language models like GPT and Gemini are becoming more and more ubiquitous, what does this mean for comedy? If computers getting things obviously wrong is a factor in their comedy value, do the improvements in generative AI take us into an uncanny valley where the outputs are realistic enough to no longer be funny? 

Join our presenters as they each argue the case for one side of the battle between generations from large language models, vs. more naive generation approaches. 

We’ll explore what makes comedy funny at all, and then drill deeper into why we find content generated by computers so hilarious - often when it’s not trying to be! 

Throughout the talk we’ll give some examples of humorous computer generated content from past projects - intentional or otherwise. Learn why you shouldn’t join us for dinner when the recipes are auto-generated; see how we abuse state-of-the-art AI safety techniques to make LLMs funnier; and join for a group singalong for some live-generated parody karaoke. 

Along the way we'll try to answer questions, such as: 

What makes karaoke an engaging social activity? 
Why is chatGPT getting worse at parody song lyrics, and what can we do about this? 
Which parts of language models are the “funny parts”, and what happens if you supercharge them? 
Do the people who attend EMF have an objectively* good sense of humour? 

Finally we answer the most important question of them all: Can LLMs ever hope to beIn
Time to next talk: 2:00:00


The XZ backdoor - what, why, and how?
by Matthew Garrett
Stage A on Fri 31, 16:40 for 30 mins
Earlier this year, a developer was trying to benchmark a database. But something was wrong - SSH was taking up too much CPU time in the background. This accidental observation led to the discovery of an audacious attempt to introduce a backdoor that would allow an attacker access to almost any system in the world running SSH, an attack made up of both technical and social components.

This talk will describe the backdoor itself, the process that went into it being possible to inject in the first place, and how this was exacerbated by a series of entirely reasonable decisions on the part of Linux distributions. It's a story of social engineering, novel obfuscation mechanisms, and a long con over several years. We'll delve into why distributions patch upstream code, why dependency chains are complicated, and how it's even possible for a compression library to break all the SSH security mechanisms that are intended to prevent this sort of thing from happening in the first place.
Time to next talk: 0:10:00


Engineering lessons from a 300 year-old poem  
by Tim Ruffles
Stage B on Fri 31, 16:50 for 30 mins
There are three things about this poem that will surprise you. First: though written 300 years ago, it contains superb guidance on being an engineer or maker of any kind. Second: you’ll immediately recognise some of its best lines. Third: its author was an indomitable twenty-three year old hunchbacked dwarf, who had educated himself due to religious persecution.

I hope you’ll take away some maxims that’ll stick with you and inform your work.  And if you’re someone who’s never ‘got’ poetry, this may be the poem that unlocks it for you.
Time to next talk: 1:20:00


The Auto Plane Spotter
by Chris Lynas
Stage C on Fri 31, 18:10 for 30 mins
As a semi-professional plane spotter when I hear or see an aircraft fly over I will sometimes point at it. But I can't always tell if there's an aircraft flying over, and I can't be awake 24/7 so I miss some, which I find unacceptable. 

Enter the auto spotter, a robot that is capable of pointing at the nearest aircraft continuously.

The auto spotter uses 1090Mhz ADS-B Out transmissions to work out where the nearest aircraft is relative to its location and works out the bearing and elevation for a pointer. This is the same public data that is used to feed flight information services and can be received by anyone with the right (relatively cheap) equipment; all commercial and many general aviation aircraft around the world use it to transmit their positions, speeds, altitudes and more.
You may have seen the pointer at EMF2022 (in between rain showers) and this talk goes into some of the details of how it was developed, and how it works.
Time to next talk: 0:30:00


Is everything difficult, or is it just me?
by Jo Franchetti
Stage A on Fri 31, 18:40 for 40 mins
It isn't just you.

There are so many pressures on us, not only from our jobs and industry, but from the state of society, politics and the economy as a whole.

Join me on a joyful journey through the alphabet of overwhelm, we’ll cover Anxiety, Burnout, Capitalism, Depression, Emotional Labour and many other fun factors. We’ll talk through how to recognise symptoms in yourself and your friends. Lets learn how to survive, and hopefully thrive, in this ABSea of sh*t.

Time to next talk: 16:00:00


How to Save a Life
by Skylar MacDonald
Stage C on Sat 01, 10:40 for 30 mins
You, Eleanor Shellstrop, are dead. You are in cardiac arrest. Your heart has stopped beating, you have stopped breathing, and medically speaking you have died. Not a great start to your day! But worry not: someone has called 999. This talk is the story of that 999 call.

This talk, presented by the CAD & Technical Lead at the London Ambulance Service, will describe everything that happens between dialling 999 and getting to hospital, and all of the technology involved in triaging the call, dispatching the ambulance, and helping patients over the phone before it arrives. This isn't a heartwarming human-interest story from the documentaries — this is the full ins and outs of all the systems, processes, and infrastructure that keeps people safe across a major city every day. We'll explore how we use open data to find exactly where you are, exactly how we decide who gets help quickest and who must wait, and how your phone can help save your life. We'll also look at what happens when it all goes wrong, and how we respond to business continuity incidents — after all, we can't just shut up shop if the system goes down.

Expect high-level conversations about medical emergencies, but this talk is suitable for all ages.
Time to next talk: 0:40:00


Gas boilers suck! Hack yours today, save money, save the planet! 
by Lee V
Stage A on Sat 01, 11:20 for 30 mins
Gas boilers, almost all homes in the UK have them, but they are dreadful!
+90% of the ones I've seen are badly spec'ed and horribly configured, so they burn way too much gas.
Then Martin Lewis keeps telling us to "lower the flow temperature" but it's never really explained how to, or what this does to save gas (and money). 

Well have I got a Slide Deck for you!!

As with any serious problem, it needs hard data. So I wired my Raspberry Pi home server to my central heating controls, wrote a bunch of code, and spent last winter collecting data from my boiler, a dozen temperature sensors, some humidity sensors and the Octopus Energy API.

I have pretty graphs to show what happens all around my home, how altering the flow temperature works, how altering set points work, why my house was too cold, then too hot, and used way too much gas. 
I'll explain the (simple) physics and how to tweak your system for best performance too. 

But ultimately, we all have to stop burning gas and move to heat pumps, a solution not understood by many and requiring something of a mind shift from the way gas central heating has always worked. I'll explain how heat pumps work and what you can do to prepare for their arrival in your home.

The future is bright, and it's heading rapidly in this direction.
Time to next talk: 0:30:00


OMG WTF SSO
by Adina Bogert-O'Brien
Stage C on Sat 01, 11:50 for 30 mins
Single Sign-On (SSO) is sold as a way to
•	centralize managing your organization’s users,
•	make life easier for your colleagues, and
•	enforce consistent security standards.
But SSO protocols are just ways for an identity provider to share information about an authenticated identity with another service. Me having a way to tell my vendor “yeah, that’s Bob” doesn’t tell me what the vendor does with this information, or if the vendor always asks me who’s coming in the door.
A bad SSO implementation can make you think you’re safer, while hiding all the new and fun things that have gone wrong.
To get the most out of implementing SSO, I need to know what I’m trying to accomplish and what steps I need to follow to get there. To illustrate why SSO needs to be set up carefully, for each of the things you need to do right, I’ll give you some fun examples of creative ways you and your vendor can do this wrong. We all learn from failure, right???
I’m sharing this info because this year I got deeply involved in the SSO setup for several vendors at work. It turns out that I’m good at asking weird questions, and it’s an extremely valuable thing to do. If you know how things should be, then you know where they could be broken, and you can ask your vendors (and your colleagues!) “weird questions” before an adversary does.

Time to next talk: 0:10:00


introduction of lockpicking and the ethics of lockpicking
by Isabella Whelan
Lockpicking Village Tent on Sat 01, 12:00 for 120 mins
This workshop will be designed for people just starting lockpicking or interested, and I will teach people the different types, tools and ethics.
Time to next talk: 0:30:00


Mathematical Origami
by Ayliean Macdonald
Workshop 5 (Maths) on Sat 01, 12:30 for 30 mins
Get ready to fold your own Flexagons, a bizarre mathematical shape with two faces which can be flexed to reveal a hidden face out of nowhere! Use them as a way to send secret notes or a fun fidget or stim toy.
We'll delve into a little of the Maths behind them and then kick it up into the next dimension by creating Kaleidocycles, a 3D version of the Flexagon.
You will have time to flex your artistic flare and decorate your creations to highlight their unusual geometry.
Time to next talk: 0:20:00


How volunteers built and are now operating Hydro Power generation on the Thames
by Stuart Ward
Stage A on Sat 01, 12:50 for 30 mins
This is the story of Reading Hydro, how a group of volunteers built and are now operating a hydro generation plant on the Thames in Reading. From raising the £1.2M to the parts build by volunteers, and how they are now operating the plant. 
Time to next talk: 0:40:00


Hackers, Superheroes, and Super Massive Black Holes
by Paul Franklin
Stage A on Sat 01, 13:30 for 30 mins
Double Oscar winner Paul Franklin talks about his 30 year career in the movies and how he has brought some of modern cinema’s most iconic imagery to the screen.
Time to next talk: 2:40:00


Security Theatre
by Morgan Hill (pcwizz)
Stage B on Sat 01, 16:10 for 30 mins
We will take a peek behind the scenes at the technology used in performing arts venues in order to asses the cyber security implications and how we can address them. A modern performing arts space is no longer several independent systems providing show elements such as light and sound, but rather an IP network fabric delivering the desired elements flexibly around the venue and sometimes beyond. As a community we have gathered a good understanding of designing reasonably secure networks and protocols I would like to apply this knowledge to the unique demands of a theatre.

If you often find yourself distracted by the coordination of the light fixtures rather than the performance this talk is for you. Or may you just like designing networks and learning about interesting protocols.

I previously covered Audio over IP in a talk at MCH2022: https://media.ccc.de/v/mch2022-113-audio-networks-and-their-security-implications

In the interest of transparency I am partially employed (and was previously fully employed) by Holoplot a professional audio company that principally sells network based loud speakers. I'm also a freelance security consultant. However, I'm doing this talk purely in a personal capacity and all thoughts an opinions expressed are my own not those of any employers, clients, or customers.

Time to next talk: 0:20:00


The problem with medical influencers
by Rohin Francis
Stage A on Sat 01, 16:30 for 30 mins
High carb? High fat? Which fat?
Weights, are you crazy? It's all about cardio!
Cardio, are you mad? Weights!
Is Diet Coke giving you cancer? Did seed oils cause your gammy knee? Fruits are bad now? Ground yourself, but air your perineum. Suncream is a conspiracy and your brain is infected with mould. Listen to your bowels, the microbiome is in control. Meditate, but don't enjoy it. Stare directly into the sun. Ice baths! Saunas! Ice baths in saunas! (admittedly quite brief)

And whatever you do, DON'T. EAT. ANYTHING.

Why is it so hard to find useful and understandable medical information on the internet? Why are the people who we go to so bad at doing it? Why has wellness become a sickness? NHS consultant cardiologist Dr Rohin Francis dives into the wild world of medical influencers to find out why too much information can be bad for your health.
Time to next talk: 0:20:00


A Brief History of Calendar Systems and Movable Feasts
by John Dalziel
Stage B on Sat 01, 16:50 for 30 mins
Join us for a calendrical safari of the weird and wonderful history of Calendar Systems and Movable Feasts. Marvel, as we compute the date of Pancake Day. Gasp, as we gaze on the metric madness of the French Republican calendar. Find out why on earth, the UK tax year starts on April 6th?! 
Time to next talk: 0:10:00


Data is plural
by Gavin Freeguard
Stage C on Sat 01, 17:00 for 20 mins
I once accidentally got YouGov to poll whether it should be ‘the data is’ or ‘the data are’. 

Whether you favour 'are' or 'is', in many ways, data is plural. When we talk about data, we’re talking about different things, contexts, needs, and perspectives. Thinking of ‘data’ as a singular thing brings risks. We always have to set data in a more plural context and can never think about ‘just’ the data. And data we think of as being about us – singular, as individuals – is often about a plurality of others, and its value – to governments and tech companies – is in plurality or aggregate. All of this means we need to rethink our approach to data and take a relational, collective and democratic - a plural, political and human – approach.
Time to next talk: 0:50:00


I Hacked Into My Own Car and other stories
by Steve Mould
Stage A on Sat 01, 17:50 for 30 mins
I'm not a hacker. But I did manage to unlock my car with a laptop, and I'll show you how to do it. Please don't steal my car afterwards. And I'll show you how I reverse engineered a talking robot toy from the 80s to make it say scary things. And how I predicted the exact time of my child's birth with excel. During the labour.
Time to next talk: 16:50:00


I FOI'd every NHS board in England on autism assessment provision
by Georgia Harper
Stage B on Sun 02, 10:40 for 20 mins
In December 2023, 172,022 people were waiting for an autism assessment. We know this because NHS England publish quarterly national and regional statistics on the size of the waiting list. What we *don't* know is how long they're waiting for, how many ultimately get a diagnosis, what the referral process is like, or what support (if any) is given afterwards - all of which is a postcode lottery.

I lead policy at Autistica, the UK's leading autism research and campaigning charity. I am also autistic myself, which sometimes manifests as a chronic inability to give up. That's why, on 14th March, I sent the same Freedom of Information Act request to all 42 NHS Integrated Care Boards in England.

What started as firing off a few e-mails turned very complicated very quickly; this is a whistle-stop tour of redirection, confusion, and private outsourcing. Over eleven weeks on, I *hope* I'll be able to present a national overview of the growing crisis facing autistic people and their loved ones - and what we need to do about it.
Time to next talk: 0:30:00


Making sense of London Underground's timetables and real-time data
by Arturs Dobrecovs
Stage B on Sun 02, 11:10 for 30 mins
Building on a talk by eta from EMF 2022, this is a deeper dive into how to make use of London Underground's real-time data and hard-to-access timetables to predict a train's future actions.

I will be going into depth on what is and isn't useful about TfL's APIs, the major differences between the operations of LU and National Rail operators, why it's so difficult to obtain LU timetables in a useful format, and why it's even more difficult to apply real-time data to them.
Time to next talk: 0:50:00


Titanium Spork Workshop
by Richard Sewell
Workshop 0 (Drop-in) on Sun 02, 12:00 for 180 mins
Make your own titanium spork, to your own design. You’ll cut it from sheet and hammer it to shape. No experience is required, and you’ll end up learning some basic sheet-metal technique.


Time to next talk: 0:20:00


An engineer’s guide to parenthood
by Ella Barrington
Stage C on Sun 02, 12:20 for 30 mins
A lot has happened at the other end of life since the last EMF camp; pregnancy, birth and adjusting to life with a tiny human.

I am an engineer, so when two thin blue lines appeared and I found myself thrown into the chaos of pregnancy and parenthood, I discovered that the best way of dealing with it was to use the engineering approach that was already ingrained in me. “An engineer's guide to parenthood” if you will.

Some bits worked (some less so!) and that’s what I want to share with you this year, following on from my 2022 talk, "An engineer's guide to grief".
Time to next talk: 1:30:00


Never Settle Down
by Kestral Gaian
Stage B on Sun 02, 13:50 for 30 mins
As a kid I couldn't decide what I wanted to be when I grew up. I still can't, but over the past twenty years I've turned that into a superpower.

In this talk I'll tell you how I hacked the idea of a standard career and managed to combine skills from different fields and specialties, leading to some unique roles and opportunities. If you love learning and constantly adding new tools to your intellectual toolkit, you’ll find that being a 'nerd of all trades' is not just fun—it’s a strategic advantage in the world of 2024.
Time to next talk: 1:00:00


Steaming into Sustainability
by Ben Hussey
Stage C on Sun 02, 14:50 for 30 mins
How do you get several three storey Cornish beam engines, a collection of Grade I listed buildings and a whole network of steam infrastructure on the path towards net zero? This talk is the experience of a volunteer on the practical challenges met whilst helping the London Museum of Water and Steam with several major projects.

Expect tales of reverse engineering boiler control system ladder logic, interfacing raspberryPis to 100psi steam lines and working out the water/gas/steam usage to run 200-year old steam water pumps.
Time to next talk: 0:10:00


Driving fancy LED panels with commodity hardware
by eta
Stage A on Sun 02, 15:00 for 30 mins
Ever wondered about what's behind large advertising billboards? Interested in pretty blinking lights? Curious about electronics and circuit board design? This talk might be for you!

Our hackspace recently got a donation of ~800 LED matrix panels (squares with lots of tiny LEDs on them), with little in the way of documentation. I'll explain how they work, how we got them to light up and display things, and how to make it fast enough to display 30fps video -- all with commodity parts that cost less than 20 pounds.

We'll explore the weird and wonderful world of poorly translated datasheets and control software, marvel at the library of weird glitched-out images I ended up with on the road to success, and dive into the strange but extremely useful Programmable I/O block of the RP2040 microcontroller. If the stars align, you'll be able to see everything working on a real demonstration panel, too!

Although we'll be going into detail on some bits, this talk should be accessible to most audiences. 
Time to next talk: 1:40:00


Whispered Secrets
by John Sandall
Stage C on Sun 02, 16:40 for 30 mins
Are you secretly a spy and/or passionate about open-source? Maybe you don't trust a cloud-hosted service with your highly classified information, or perhaps you like to build things for yourself. In this light-hearted talk, you will learn how to make a real-time on-device GenAI-powered application that can live transcribe and summarize conversations without internet access, using open-source components.

Our journey begins with an introduction to open-source LLMs and the latest trends in running GenAI tools on your own hardware. We will build up our application step-by-step, first creating a live streaming voice-to-text transcription pipeline, then an LLM-based conversation summarization layer, presented within a Streamlit frontend, with conversation summaries sent to a lightweight Django API backend for storage.

Here's why this matters:
1?? Cloud-hosted SaaS tools cannot store highly sensitive information.
2?? Good open-source alternatives exist for most GenAI tasks; the more people who use them, the more they will thrive.
3?? Commercial tools will solve for common use cases, but developers can build personalised tools that are highly specialised for their own bespoke needs.

This talk is tailored for Python enthusiasts and requires no ML expertise. By seeing a practical demo come together piece by piece, attendees will gain a deeper understanding of how to build their own complex Generative AI applications and be pushed to imagine what they could make for themselves using on-device computation in real-world scenarios. Expect plenty of Python code and some fun live demos, with GitHub code provided for attendees to try it at home.
Time to next talk: 1:20:00


Infrastructure Review
by EMF Team
Stage A on Sun 02, 18:00 for 40 mins
Members of the EMF infrastructure teams (network, power, lighting, video, telephony) will talk about how we made the event happen this year. There will be graphs.